Best practices and recommendations for EMR on EKS clusters (#12)
aws/aws-emr-containers-best-practices: content/node-placement/docs/fargate-node-placement.md

## AWS Fargate profile 
Before you can schedule pods on Fargate in your cluster, you must define at least one Fargate profile that specifies which pods use Fargate when launched.  You must define a namespace for every selector. The Fargate profile allows an administrator to declare which pods run on Fargate. This declaration is done through the profile’s selectors. If a namespace selector is defined without any labels, Amazon EKS attempts to schedule all pods that run in that namespace onto Fargate using the profile.

A Spark application whose driver and executor pods are distributed across multiple AZs can incur inter-AZ data transfer costs. To minimize or eliminate inter-AZ data transfer costs, you can configure the application to only run on the nodes within a single AZ.  In this example, we use the kubernetes [node selector](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-kubernetes.html#pod-spec) to specify which AZ should the job run on.

**Create Fargate Profile**

> Create your Fargate profile with the following eksctl command, replacing the `<variable text>` (including <>) with your own values. You're required to specify a namespace. However, the `--labels` option is not required.

Reviewer: But the `--labels` option is required if we want to only have the executors run on Fargate, right? Is there a downside to including the labels? Maybe we say "`--labels` is not required to create your Fargate profile, but will be required if you want to only run Spark executors on Fargate."

```
eksctl create fargateprofile \
    --cluster <cluster_name> \
    --name <fargate_profile_name> \
    --namespace <virtual_cluster_mapped_namespace> \
    --labels spark-node-placement=fargate
```

### 1- Place entire job including driver pod on Fargate 

> When both Driver and Executor are labeled that matches the Fargate Selector, the entire job including the driver pod could run on Fargate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When both Driver and Executor use the same labels as the Fargate Selector, the entire job including the driver pod will run on Fargate.
```

**Request:**
```
cat >spark-python-in-s3-nodeselector.json << EOF
{
  "name": "spark-python-in-s3-fargate-nodeselector", 
  "virtualClusterId": "<virtual-cluster-id>", 
  "executionRoleArn": "<execution-role-arn>", 
  "releaseLabel": "emr-6.3.0-latest", 
  "jobDriver": {
    "sparkSubmitJobDriver": {
      "entryPoint": "s3://<s3 prefix>/trip-count.py", 

>        "sparkSubmitParameters": "--conf spark.driver.cores=4  --conf spark.executor.memory=20G --conf spark.driver.memory=20G --conf spark.executor.cores=4"

Reviewer: Fargate can only support 3 cores, right?

```suggestion
       "sparkSubmitParameters": "--conf spark.driver.cores=3  --conf spark.executor.memory=20G --conf spark.driver.memory=20G --conf spark.executor.cores=3"
```

Author: Actually, Fargate can support up to 4 vCPUs https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/AWS_Fargate.html#fargate-tasks-size
I tested the above configurations and Driver and Executors both ran successfully all on Fargate.

Reviewer: OK cool!

    }
  }, 
  "configurationOverrides": {
    "applicationConfiguration": [
      {
        "classification": "spark-defaults", 
        "properties": {
            "spark.kubernetes.driver.label.spark-node-placement": "fargate",
            "spark.kubernetes.executor.label.spark-node-placement": "fargate"
         }
      }
    ], 
    "monitoringConfiguration": {
      "cloudWatchMonitoringConfiguration": {
        "logGroupName": "/emr-containers/jobs", 
        "logStreamNamePrefix": "demo"
      }, 
      "s3MonitoringConfiguration": {
        "logUri": "s3://joblogs"
      }
    }
  }
}
EOF
aws emr-containers start-job-run --cli-input-json file:///spark-python-in-s3-nodeselector.json
```

**Observed Behavior:**  

> When the job starts the driver pod and executor pods are scheduled only on fargate since both are labeled with the `spark-node-placement: fargate`. This is useful when we want to run the entire job on Fargate nodes. The maximum vCPU available for the driver pod is 4vCPU. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the job starts, the driver pod and executor pods are scheduled only on Fargate since both are labeled with the `spark-node-placement: fargate`. This is useful when we want to run the entire job on Fargate nodes. The maximum vCPU available for the driver pod is 4vCPU. 
```

Author: Addressed.

  "releaseLabel": "emr-6.3.0-latest", 
  "jobDriver": {
    "sparkSubmitJobDriver": {
      "entryPoint": "s3://<s3 prefix>/trip-count.py", 
       "sparkSubmitParameters": "--conf spark.driver.cores=6 --conf spark.executor.memory=20G --conf spark.driver.memory=30G --conf spark.executor.cores=4"
    }
  }, 
  "configurationOverrides": {
    "applicationConfiguration": [
      {
        "classification": "spark-defaults", 
        "properties": {
            "spark.kubernetes.executor.label.spark-node-placement": "fargate"
         }
      }
    ], 
    "monitoringConfiguration": {
      "cloudWatchMonitoringConfiguration": {
        "logGroupName": "/emr-containers/jobs", 
        "logStreamNamePrefix": "demo"
      }, 
      "s3MonitoringConfiguration": {
        "logUri": "s3://joblogs"
      }
    }
  }
}
EOF
aws emr-containers start-job-run --cli-input-json file:///spark-python-in-s3-nodeselector.json
```

**Observed Behavior:**  
When the job starts, the driver pod schedules on an EC2 instance. EKS picks an instance from the first Node Group that has the matching resources available to the driver pod.

### 3- Define a NodeSelector in Pod Templates 

> Beginning with Amazon EMR versions 5.33.0 or 6.3.0, Amazon EMR on EKS supports Spark’s pod template feature. Pod templates are specifications that determine how to run each pod. You can use pod template files to define the driver or executor pod’s configurations that Spark configurations do not support. For example spark configurations do not support defining indivisual node selectors for the driver pod and the executor pods. Define a node selector **only** for the driver pod when you want to choose on which pool of EC2 instance it should schedule. Let the Fargate Profile schedule the executor pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beginning with Amazon EMR versions 5.33.0 or 6.3.0, Amazon EMR on EKS supports Spark’s pod template feature. Pod templates are specifications that determine how to run each pod. You can use pod template files to define the driver or executor pod’s configurations that Spark configurations do not support. For example Spark configurations do not support defining individual node selectors for the driver pod and the executor pods. Define a node selector **only** for the driver pod when you want to choose on which pool of EC2 instance it should schedule. Let the Fargate Profile schedule the executor pods.
```

Author: Addressed
